Project Goals october update (#1423)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2024-10-31-Project-Goals-Oct-Update.md

---
layout: post
title: "October Project Goals Update"
author: Niko Matsakis
team: Leadership Council <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/leadership-council>
---
The Rust project is currently working towards a [slate of 26 project
goals](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2024h2/goals.html), with 3 of them designed as [Flagship
Goals](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2024h2/goals.html#flagship-goals). This post provides selected
updates on our progress towards these goals (or, in some cases, lack thereof). The full details for any particular goal
are available in its associated [tracking issue on the rust-project-goals
repository](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/milestone/2).

## Flagship goals

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/105'><strong>Bring the Async Rust experience closer to parity with sync Rust</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="15" max="37"></progress>
</div>
</div>

> The biggest elements of our goal are solving the ["send bound" problem][sbp] via [return-type notation][RTN] (RTN) and adding support for async closures. This month we made progress towards both. For RTN, @compiler-errors extended the return-type notation landed support for using RTN in self-types like `where Self::method(): Send`. He also authored a [blog post with a call for testing](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2024/09/26/rtn-call-for-testing.html) explaining what RTN is and how it works. For async closures, the lang team reached a preliminary consensus on the `async Fn` syntax, with the understanding that it will also include some "async type" syntax. This rationale was documented in [RFC #3710](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3710), which is now open for feedback. The team held a [design meeting on Oct 23](https://hackmd.io/@rust-lang-team/ryxu3YLx1e) and @nikomatsakis will be updating the RFC with the concusions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The biggest elements of our goal are solving the ["send bound" problem][sbp] via [return-type notation][RTN] (RTN) and adding support for async closures. This month we made progress towards both. For RTN, @compiler-errors extended the return-type notation landed support for using RTN in self-types like `where Self::method(): Send`. He also authored a [blog post with a call for testing](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2024/09/26/rtn-call-for-testing.html) explaining what RTN is and how it works. For async closures, the lang team reached a preliminary consensus on the `async Fn` syntax, with the understanding that it will also include some "async type" syntax. This rationale was documented in [RFC #3710](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3710), which is now open for feedback. The team held a [design meeting on Oct 23](https://hackmd.io/@rust-lang-team/ryxu3YLx1e) and @nikomatsakis will be updating the RFC with the conclusions.
```

[sbp]: 

> [RTN]: 

Reviewer: These look like they need URLs.

Author: Whoooops

Author: ```suggestion
[sbp]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2024h2/async.html#resolve-the-send-bound-problem

[RTN]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3654
```

    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="16" max="30"></progress>
</div>
</div>

 The Rust 2024 edition is progressing well and is on track to be released on schedule. The major milestones include preparing to stabilize the edition by November 22, 2024, with the actual stabilization occurring on November 28, 2024. The edition will then be cut to beta on January 3, 2025, followed by an announcement on January 9, 2025, indicating that Rust 2024 is pending release. The final release is scheduled for February 20, 2025.

The priorities for this edition have been to ensure its success without requiring excessive effort from any individual. The team is pleased with the progress, noting that this edition will be the largest since Rust 2015, introducing many new and exciting features. The process has been carefully managed to maintain high standards without the need for high-stress heroics that were common in past editions. Notably, the team has managed to avoid cutting many items from the edition late in the development process, which helps prevent wasted work and burnout.

> All priority language items for Rust 2024 have been completed and are ready for release. These include several key issues and enhancements. Additionally, there are three changes to the standard library, two updates to Cargo, and an exciting improvement to `rustdoc` that will significantly speed up doctests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All priority language items for Rust 2024 have been completed and are ready for release. These include several key issues and enhancements. Additionally, there are three changes to the standard library, several updates to Cargo, and an exciting improvement to `rustdoc` that will significantly speed up doctests.
```

The count isn't exact, but it is roughly 3 major things.

> This edition also introduces a new style edition for `rustfmt`, which includes several formatting changes. The only remaining task is the completion of a PR for one item, after which final quality assurance crater runs will be conducted. Once these are triaged, the nightly beta for Rust 2024 will be announced, and wider testing will be solicited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This edition also introduces a new style edition for `rustfmt`, which includes several formatting changes.

The team is preparing to start final quality assurance crater runs. Once these are triaged, the nightly beta for Rust 2024 will be announced, and wider testing will be solicited.
```

The situation has now changed.  Everything we were waiting for has now happened.

Rust 2024 will be stabilized in nightly in late November 2024, cut to beta on January 3, 2025, and officially released on February 20, 2025. More details about the edition items can be found in the [Edition Guide](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/edition-guide/rust-2024/index.html).

## Goals with updates

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/100'><strong>&quot;Stabilizable&quot; prototype for expanded const generics</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="0" max="4"></progress>
</div>
</div>

>  * camlid has started working on using the new lowering schema for more than just const parameters, which once done will allow the introduction of a `min_generic_const_args` feature gate.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be https://github.com/camelid?

```suggestion
 * camelid has started working on using the new lowering schema for more than just const parameters, which once done will allow the introduction of a `min_generic_const_args` feature gate.
```
